>>Hello.
I'm Michael Tellinger.
And our journey continues
where we last left off,
exploring sound and the
properties of sound,
and the use of sound in
ancient civilizations
and how we can use it today
for the benefit of humanity.
What we saw last time was
the properties of sound
as it manifests
into physical form.
And the amazing
ability that our voices
have to produce
an infinite number
of physical manifestations
of sound, making us
understand that we are
creators of our own reality.
By simply speaking, we're
bringing forth into existence
our thoughts and
our spoken words
into physical form that manifest
in front of us and around us
as we speak.
And later again in
this series, I'll
talk about how our
thoughts and the words
we speak go into
the resonance field
and affect everything
in creation instantly.
It doesn't take light years
for our thoughts and our words
to reach everything in
creation, it happens instantly.
And therein lies some
very important secrets
and the properties of
sound and resonance
that connect
everything in creation.
So let's continue
exploring this thing called
sound and the sound creations
and the inventions around us.
And let's just recap some of
the things we touched upon
in the previous episode.
So sound levitates, it boils
water, it creates light,
it creates DNA, it heals
and destroys pathogens,
it moves beyond
the speed of light.
Sound can create saser
beams as saser technology.
It makes things invisible.
It energizes the water we
drink and the air we breathe.
And sound can create
hurricanes and bring rain
onto a dry planet.
So let's move on to sound heals.
And many people will already
be familiar with the fact
that the cures for all
disease have been discovered,
and sound was always behind it.
But even in the Native
American medicine wheel,
it comes to us in the
shape of a circle.
Remember we touched
upon the fact
that sound is represented
as a cross in a circle
being the primary
source of all things.
And here once again, the
Native American medicine wheel,
the medicine men, the
cross in a circle,
giving us a clear indication
that they understood that sound
can be used as a healer.
And that the prime
resonance frequency
can be used as a healing
frequency to heal all disease
and to bring relief
to people that suffer
from all kinds of ailments.
The original people of Australia
have a phenomenal story
that brings sound as
a tool of creation,
bringing into creation
the mountains and valleys
on the surface of planet Earth.
And this is what the
creation story tells us.
It says, "time began when
the supernatural beings awoke
and broke through the
surface of the Earth.
They moved about
the Earth bringing
into being the physical
features of the Earth,
and they did this all
with three sacred songs."
This is phenomenal.
There's so many parallel
connections to the Bible
and other ancient civilizations
and their creation stories.
But in this particular
instance, we
have a beautiful
example with the work
of Hans Jenny from his
1960s beautiful introduction
to the science of cymatics
in his classic documentary
on cymatics.
And the little excerpt
from this shows us
how if you take
lycopodium powder--
it's a very, very fine
powder from a plant.
So when you look at this
video clip, remember,
you're looking at
powder on a metal plate.
You're not looking at
a jelly, or a liquid,
or anything like that.
It is powder on a metal plate
behaving like a jelly type,
or a liquid kind of substance.
So imagine this powder
on this metal plate
being the soil and the
surface of planet Earth
that echoes the sentiments
of the original people
of Australia's story of
creation and the manifestation
of the surface of planet Earth.
The sound frequencies coming out
of the center of planet Earth--
we all know that the planet and
the Earth rings like a bell,
it gives off.
It never stops giving
off sound resonance
from the core of the planet.
And these frequencies
and these resonance field
hit the surface of the Earth,
resonating and vibrating
the surface soil on the
surface of the planet
just like the
lycopodium powder is
vibrated on this metal plate.
And imagine you're seeing
the surface of the Earth,
but over millions
of years, that have
been compressed into seconds.
And this is how the
surface of the Earth
was formed as shown in
this Aboriginal story,
and by Hans Jenny in his
classic cymatics documentary
from 1960s.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>Circular shapes
appear, but these
are in a state of
continuous upheaval.
The particles are pushed
outwards from the center
and inwards again
from the outside.
And at the same
time, they pulsate.
We can recognize
the various patterns
of the vibratory fields.
They move to and fro,
unite and separate again
according to the vibratory
state of the surface formed
by the membrane.
And we can, as it
were, move over
a landscape which is in
a state of vibration.
If we intensify the
note, if we produce
a crescendo for the ear, the
masses are hurled outwards.
We see fountains, eruptions,
explosions almost.
But invariably, the particles
return to the center
so that here again, even
under these violently dynamic
conditions, we find
there is circulation.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>So, can you see this
beautiful yellow powder
moving across the
surface of the Earth?
Well, it just so happens that
this is an original people
of Australia's creation story.
And I just recently flew over
the Australian Outback down
in Northern South Australia and
took these aerial photographs
that very closely resembles
this lycopodium powder moving
on the metal plate.
And we can see the
features of Mother Earth
just the same way we saw the
lycopodium powder creating it
from the resonance
under the metal plate.
It is spectacular when we start
recognizing and connecting
these dots and seeing how
sound and resonance is
behind everything
in our reality.
And that brings us
to the question,
can sound be used as a tool?
Can sound be used as technology?
And the answer is obviously yes.
If sound is a primordial
source of all things,
sound can be used as a tool.
Sound can be used as a weapon.
Sound can be used as technology.
And there are some
spectacular ancient examples
of using sound and tools
and resonance as technology.
The Egyptian ankh is one
of the most famous symbols
in the world today.
And it is very clear
from some of the images
and the paintings left
behind by the Egyptians
that they used the ankh
as a tool, and a tool
for all kinds of things--
tool for levitating,
tool for healing.
And clearly it was a resonating
tool, like a tuning fork.
What I find fascinating is,
when you look at the fact
that every king
and every pharaoh
had his or her
own personal ankh,
it tells us that there was
something very special.
And the personal relationship
between the individual
and the ankh-- they
didn't share their ankhs,
like we don't share
our toothbrushes today.
It seems that every
ankh was calibrated
to the body or the energy field
of that individual's body.
And I found a critical
bit of information
and connecting these
dots when I was studying
the work of John Keely,
who in 1888 in Philadelphia
was already doing amazing
experiments with levitating
with sound, and doing all
kinds of things with sound.
And he found that the sound
technology he was using
had to be calibrated
to his body.
And the tools and
implements he was using
were calibrated to the
energy in his body.
And when friends
and other people
came around and wanted to use
the same tools to levitate
the objects he was
working with, they
couldn't do it until their
bodies were calibrated
to the tools and implements that
brought forth the levitation.
So suddenly you see a
very important reason
by studying John Keely to
the ancient Egyptians why
each pharaoh and each king or
ruler had his or her own ankh.
It was specifically calibrated
to their body's energy
to perform whatever tasks
they had to perform.
We also know, by the
way, that the Egyptians
were using sound to heal and
cure all kinds of diseases.
That they would regrow organs
in their special sound healing
chambers and cure
all kinds of disease
that certain researchers have
shared with us over the years.
The Ark of the
Covenant is probably
one of the most famous tools
and examples of technology
and a weapon in ancient times.
The fact that God
gave Moses and Aaron
such very specific
instructions as how
to build the Ark
of the Covenant,
you can't get more specific
than what you read in the Bible.
It's quite spectacular.
Now, first of all,
the weight of the ark
would have been
between one and a half
and three tons, so the fact
that it's got these two carrying
poles is nonsensical.
The ark would not have been
carried by four, or six,
or eight guys.
It's too heavy to be carried.
And those poles are
probably too thin to carry
the ark in any case.
So what is the ark all about?
Well, the ark is clearly
a communication device.
The Bible tells us that Moses
must sit on top of the ark,
on the "mercy" seat.
I don't know why it's
called a mercy seat,
but that's what it's called.
Sit in the mercy seat, and I
will talk to you from there.
I'll give you the
instructions as to what
you must tell the Israelites.
So the mercy seat was
on top of the ark,
underneath the wings
of the cherubim.
So it was the wings of
the cherubim over Moses.
He would sit there and get
instructions or a message
from God.
So clearly it was a
communication device.
The other important
thing is that the Bible
does tell us that the ark never
really touched the ground.
It always hovered
above the ground.
So the poles that we
think were carrying
poles were probably antennae
and not carrying poles.
And again, there's a bit
of deception going on here.
So it was being pushed along.
It levitated.
It was a levitation device.
It was always moving
and being pushed along
above the surface of the ground.
What else did the ark do?
Well, the ark
destroyed large armies.
It was put down, it
would spark and give off
sparks and lightning bolts.
And it killed thousands, and it
killed those that handled it.
It had to be stored behind
specific veils and curtains
and protection devices.
And one of the most famous
things that the ark did was it
brought down the
walls of Jericho.
And once again, there are
very specific instructions
as to what they had
to do with the ark.
They had to march around
the walls of Jericho,
around the town, holding the
ark, or carrying the ark,
or pushing the ark and
the ark would vibrate.
And they had to do this a
specific number of times.
And then finally, with a shout
and the blast from a trumpet,
the walls came tumbling down.
A shout and a blast
from a trumpet?
Both are sounds.
So it tells us that it was
some sort of a sound pressure
wave that brought down
the walls of Jericho.
So it seems that the
ark was putting out
a resonance of some sort
that destabilized the walls.
And then with some sort of
an electromagnetic pulse,
or a shout and a
blast from a trumpet,
the walls came tumbling down.
The Ark of the
Covenant remains one
of the most spectacular examples
of ancient advanced technology
that we can find.
And we continue with John
Keely, who I mentioned already,
who used sound in ways that
very few people are aware of.
And John Keely's interaction
with the government
and with using sound
on many other levels
remains a great secret
and a great mystery.
He did things that very
few people will ever know,
because much of his information,
most of his information,
was removed from the
global knowledge pool
very swiftly after his death so
it would never be discovered.
Well, John Keely is famous
for his musical dynasphere
and the fact that he could
levitate objects with sound,
that he could drill holes into
rock with absolute precision
using sound.
With millimeter
precision and accuracy,
he could crush giant
blocks of stone
into the finest powder
with sound in minutes.
We can't do that today.
The mining industry
today struggles
to crush the ore that they
get out of the ground.
It takes a great deal of effort
to crush the ore into a powder
so they can extract the minerals
that they are looking for.
I used to work in one of these
giant crusher rooms, crusher
warehouses on
Rustenburg Platinum Mine
while I was studying.
And during my VAC holidays, I
used to go and work at the mine
and earn some
extra pocket money.
And I used to walk into one
of these giant warehouses
where they had these huge
drums filled with metal balls.
And they would fill these
giant steel drums with the ore
and then they would spin
them and rotate them
and the balls would
rotate and crush the ore.
That's how our modern
mining industry does it.
John Keely was doing it
with sound in minutes.
That just shows you how
we've regressed in the way
we use technology,
and that we could
be using sound instead of
metal balls to get things done.
Sound creates light.
In fact, the Bible tells us
God said "let there be light,"
so there's no
argument with that.
And with that, I
need to remind you
that it is the sound
that is the precursor
to the electromagnetic
universe-- sound, light,
electromagneticism.
So it's the sound first,
keep that in mind.
Many people have
done experiments
by attaching an LED
light to a big speaker.
You expose the speaker to a loud
noise and the light comes on.
Some people do it with their
Christmas lights at Christmas.
And it's a fascinating
little experiment to do,
so you can try
that for yourself.
Sound levitates?
Can we show and prove this?
Absolutely.
There's some beautiful
examples on the internet how
sound levitates little objects,
but there's a trick in this.
This is not the way
that the ancients
would levitate giant stones
and 20 ton, or 300 ton,
or 1,000 ton giant
megalithic blocks.
This is just a little trick
by trapping very light objects
between two standing sound
waves and using the pressure
waves in these to levitate
very light objects.
It does, however, show us
that sound can levitate
and it gives us an indication
and an understanding how sound
can be used as such a tool.
So it allows us that freedom to
imagine how sound can levitate,
even in such a simple example
as David Deak did here
in a little cubicle, a little
chamber which is a square foot
chamber, using three
sources of sound,
levitating light
polystyrene objects.
>>No strings attached, eh?
>>One of my favorite
stories of what sound can do
is the story of Peter
Davey from New Zealand.
In 1940, Peter tried to
register a patent to boil water
with sound.
He spent his entire
life trying to get
his device and his invention
to the people of the world.
His problem was that he wanted
to sell it to the world,
and there we have the
common denominator
of why many of these
discoveries and devices
never reach the
population because most
of the time we get
caught by this notion
that we have to sell
things, and it's always
the money that gets in the way.
We'll be talking a lot more
about that in future episodes.
But Peter Davey started
boiling water with sound
in 1940 already, showing an
incredible new phenomenon that
could really save the world
from an incredible pollution
problem.
The fact that we
have to burn coal to
boil the water, to
create the steam,
to drive the turbines,
to give us electricity.
If only we could boil
water with sound,
we can create clean
electricity by boiling
the water creating the steam.
And the steam
doesn't get used up--
it gets reused over
and over again.
So it is a clean way of creating
electricity for the world.
So it is a huge step forward,
or it could be a huge step
forward, for the world
and for communities
to take control of their own
electricity and energy supply
when we find the way to
boil water with sound.
This is one of my
favorite subjects.
And what I find fascinating
is that when Peter Davey first
brought this out in the '40s.
Before he turned his device into
an electrically powered source
and a electrically
powered gadget,
he used what seems
to be two bicycle
bells-- normal, tring
tring bicycle bells,
one smaller one
inside a bigger one.
And by simply ringing the
bell, the water would boil.
Now that is the
kind of technology
I would like to
have in my house.
And I'm sure you,
too, would like
to have that in your house.
Run out of hot water?
Just ring the bell.
Ring, ring, you got a geyser
full of hot water again.
So this is phenomenal.
And just to show you how
Peter Davey did this,
here's a little
video of him actually
doing this on a news
channel in New Zealand.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>It looks like a disc
lamp, is cool to the touch
and appears to be
doing nothing until it
comes into contact with water.
92-year-old former
Spitfire pilot Peter Davey
claims his invention uses the
power of sound to boil water.
>>Davey believes high
frequency sonic vibrations
are measured from
within the silver bulb
cause the water to boil.
He says the idea came
to him 50 years ago
when he noticed different
saxophone notes caused
different household
items to rattle.
The man's powered gizmo
has experts intrigued.
Never seen anything like
it in my life, as they say.
>>And if he does get
it on the shelves,
he's already got one
interested customer.
>>If I saw one in a
shop, I'd buy one,
because I think there's
an interesting little bit
of technology.
However it is they
work, they work.
>>But for now, Davey is
savoring his gizmo's success
and sticking to his own
unique theory on how it works.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>That brings us to
the end of this episode
and our look at how
sound can be used
in so many incredible
ways, and tools,
and applications that
can benefit humanity.
And in the next
episode, we'll pick up
one of the most critical and
important aspects and parts
of our human endeavor.
And that is the
cure for a disease
and using sound and
resonance in finding
the cure for all disease
through our understanding
of the prime
resonance frequency.
And as recently
as in 2011, where
the brilliant work
of Royal Raymond Rife
was recreated by
a music professor
from Skidmore University.
Until next time, I'm
Michael Tellinger.
Thanks for watching.